{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\paperw7920
\paperh10200
\margl120
\margr120
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs36\li360\fc0\cf0 The Rules of Life\

{\b0\fs12\fc1\cf1{\NeXTGraphic18 266379_PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height60
}
,}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs24\li360\fc1\cf1 	\

\b\fs28 Cellular Automata
\b0\fs24 \
	The 
\i Game of Life
\i0  is an example of a 
\i Cellular Automaton
\i0 . Cellular automata are dynamical systems in which time, space, and dynamical variables are discrete. The space is a (regular) lattice, and each site (cell) takes a value in a discrete set. In the Game of Life this set is restricted to \{0,1\} and Such automata are known as 
\i Boolean Cellular Automata
\i0 .\
	All the cells in the system evolve synchronously according to a uniform short-range law. The law gives the future state of a cell according to the present state of the cells belonging to a certain neighborhood. In the Game of Life, the lattice is a two- dimensional square and the neighborhood consists of the 8 cells surrounding the central one. Such a neighborhood is called 
\i outer neighborhood
\i0 . (Other possibilities are: the four cells around the central one to the west, east, north and south; those four cells and the cells next to them (
\i Moore neighborhood
\i0 ); etc. ).\
	Among the various automata, 
\i totalistic
\i0  ones have a transition rule that depend 
\ul only
\ulnone  on the sum of the cell values in the neighborhood. 
\i Outer totalistic automata
\i0  depend on the value of the cell itself, and on the sum of the cells in the neighborhood. The Game of Life is an outer totalistic automaton.\
	\

{\fs12{\NeXTGraphic1272 229974_PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height20
}
,}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \
	\

\fs24 	\

\b\fs28 The Rules of the Game of Life:
\b0  \

\b\fs24 	A.
\b0 	If a cell exists at a given time, it will survive to the next tick 		if it has 
\ul exactly
\ulnone  2 or 3 neighbors.\

\b 	B.
\b0 	A cell will be born in an empty site if the site has 
\ul exactly
\ulnone  3 		neighbors.\
\

{\fs12{\NeXTGraphic1500 442307_PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height20
}
,}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \
\

\b\fs24 see also\

{\b0{\NeXTHelpLink1512 \markername ;\linkFilename Future.rtfd;\linkMarkername ;}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs24\li360\fc1\cf1 	What's Next?\

{{\NeXTHelpLink1527 \markername ;\linkFilename Bibliography.rtfd;\linkMarkername ;}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs24\li360\fc1\cf1 	A Short Bibliography\

}
